If you are a Java developer, one thing that may put you off when starting using Gradle is that you
have either to learn Kotlin or Groovy to do the configuration.
Hopefully I showed in this course that for the basic setups you mostly need to know the greater DSL
which you access via Kotlin or groove notation.
But you don't need to know all the details about the Groovy or the Kotlin language.
But if you want to keep your exposure to Groovier Kotlin to a minimum, you can actually write a lot
of build configuration in Java because as mentioned, in the end, everything you do in a build configuration
is done through some Java API.
Now what you can't write in Java is the settings file or the build files.
So in our example project, we keep them in Scotland.
You can also keep them groovy if you just switched over because you followed the previous lecture.
But then for our convention plugins, we have the choice to write the plugins in any JVM language,
including Java directly and not use a DSL for that.
Instead of applying the Kotlin DSL or the Groovy Gradle plugin here in the build file of our Gradle
Plugins project, we apply the Java Gradle plugin.
This plugin is actually also applied automatically if you use one of the other tools, so you could
even combine several approaches.
But let's stick to the Plain Java Gradle plugin for now.
If we do that, we won't have a Kotlin or Groovy Source folder anymore.
We just have a Java source folder as an enormous Java project, but still where you would expect us
to write great plugins in here to write a greater plugin in Java, you create a class.
Let's start with our base plugin and create a Java class called My Base Plugin.
The class has to implement the plugin interface with the project type parameter.
It can also be abstract, similar to tasks or other custom created types you write.
And then in the plugin you have to implement the apply method, which gets a project as a parameter.
And in this method we now can write our build configuration.
Note that the project you get in here is a place where you can call all kinds of methods on and do the
configuration.
So that and that's exactly the API you also access when you write Gradle configuration in Kotlin or
Groovy, but in a way that is else script.
The project is the context you are already in.
So you can just write something which is then a method or a property on the project type.
So if you navigate into project here, you basically see the entry API of each gradle script.
Now before we start filling the API method here, let's create two more classes for all two other convention
plugins.
My Java Library plugin and my Java application plugin.
Once we have created all these classes, we need to specify the plugin.
ID remember when we use Scotland's URL for the convention plugins, the plugin ID was derived from the
name of the file we used for the convention plugins.
Now that we implement the plugins and classes, we need to specify the plugin ID explicitly in the build
file of the plugins built for this.
The Java Gradle plugin at the great plugins extension.
Here we can list all our three plugins, say which ID they should have and map these to the corresponding
classes that implement the plugin.
These classes could also be written and Groovy or Portland or Scala.
If you apply the corresponding additional plugin to this build so that support for the corresponding
language becomes available.
What I will do now is translating everything that we had in our Scotland's L Convention plugins into
the Java notation, the convention plugins.
I'll do this line by line so then you can see how things relate.
Now that we have written all our convention plugins in Java, we can sync the project again.
In IntelliJ we can see that everything still works as before and we can run, builds and so on.